KAISER PERMANENTE INSURANCE COMPANY 
One Kaiser Plaza 
Oakland, California 94612 
GROUP DENTAL CERTIFICATE 
IMPORTANT NOTICE: 
This dental insurance plan is an excepted benefit plan and is not intended to 
comply with pediatric dental coverage required by the Affordable Care Act 
(ACA).  
This is your Certificate of Insurance (hereinafter  Certificate) while  You  are insured. It briefly explains the 
rights and benefits that are determined by the Group Policy (hereinafter Policy).  The Policy is issued to the 
UMB  Bank  (the  Trust),  sitused  in  the  state  of  Missouri.    The  Trust  Administrator  is  Kaiser  Permanente 
Insurance  Company  (KPIC).  The  Policy  is  available  for  inspection  by  the  Covered  Person  during  normal 
business hours at KPIC’s Home Office. 
This Certificate is not an insurance policy. The complete terms of the coverage are set forth in the Group 
Policy. Benefit payment is governed by all the terms, conditions and limitations of the Group Policy. If the 
Group Policy and this Certificate differ, the Group Policy will govern. The Group Policy and the Certificate 
are governed by the laws of the state in which the Group Policy was delivered. The Group Policy may be 
amended at any time without Your consent or prior notice to You.  Any such amendment will not affect a 
claim starting before the amendment takes effect.  
This  Certificate  was  issued  on  the  basis  that  the  information  on  Your  enrollment  form  was  correct  and 
complete.    If  any  information  on  the  enrollment  form  was  not  correct  or  complete,  write  to  KPIC's 
Administrator  within  ten  days  of  receipt  of  this  Certificate.  An  error  or  omission  may  result  in  loss  of 
coverage as of Your Effective Date.  You may contact the Administrator at the following address: 
Delta Dental of California 
PO Box 997330 
Sacramento, CA  95899 
This Certificate supersedes and replaces any and all certificates that may have been previously issued to 
You for the coverage described herein. 
In  this  Certificate,  Kaiser  Permanente  Insurance  Company  will  be  referred  to  as:  "KPIC",  "we",  "us",  or 
"our". The Covered Person will be referred to as: "You" or "Your".  
This Certificate is important to You and Your family. Please read this Certificate carefully and keep it in a 
safe place. 
For claims and benefit questions, contact our dental Customer Service Department at: 1-800-835-2244.  
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
If  you  require  this  Certificate  of  Insurance,  or  any  other  document  issued  to  you  in  connection  with  this 
dental  insurance  coverage  printed  in  another  language  other  than  English,  please  call  1(800)-835-2244.  
Translated documents and language interpretation may be available. The English version of the Certificate 
of Insurance is the official version.  The foreign language version is for informational purposes only.   
Please  refer  to  the  Benefit  and  Limitations  and  Services  Not  Covered  (Exclusions)  section  of  this 
Certificate  for  a  description  of  the  plan’s  general  limitations  and  exclusions.    Likewise,  the  Table  of 
GTC-9872-2000 
(DPA-Adult 2021) 
Allowances contains specific limitations for specific benefits. 
SpecimenTABLE OF CONTENTS 
The Sections of this Certificate Appear in the Order Listed Here 
Introduction 
General Definitions 
Eligibility 
Enrolling in the Dental Plan 
How the Plan Works 
Benefits and Limitations 
Services Not Covered (Exclusions) 
If You Have Questions About Service From a Participating Dentist 
Predeterminations 
Claims Payment and Appeal 
Other KPIC Obligations 
If You Have Additional Coverage 
Termination and Renewal 
Continued Coverage Option 
General Provisions 
Table of Allowances 
GTC-9872-2000 
2 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
INTRODUCTION 
How To Use This Certificate 
This Certificate includes a Table of Allowances that will give You a quick overview of Your coverage. It is 
very important, however, that You read Your entire Certificate. 
This  Certificate  uses  many  terms  that  have  very  specific  definitions  for  the  purpose  of  this  plan.  These 
terms  are  capitalized  so  that  You  can  easily  recognize  them,  and  are  defined  in  the  General  Definitions 
section. Other parts of this Certificate may contain definitions specific to those provisions. Terms that are 
used  only  within  one  section  may  be  defined  only  in  those  sections.  Please  read  these  definitions 
carefully. 
GTC-9872-2000 
3 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS 
The following terms have special  meaning throughout the Certificate. Certain words that  You will  see in 
this Certificate have specific meanings. These definitions should make Your dental insurance plan easier 
to understand. 
Annual deductible - the amount You must pay for dental care each year before the Policy Benefits begin. 
Administrator  means  Delta  Dental  of  California  (Delta  Dental),  P.O.  Box  997330,  Sacramento,  CA  95899. 
KPIC  reserves  the  right  to  change  the  Administrator  at  any  time  during  the  term  of  the  Group  Policy 
without prior written notice. 
Attending  Dentist's  Statement  (ADS)  -  a  form  used  by  Your  dentist  to  request  payment  for  dental 
treatment or Predetermination for proposed dental treatment. 
Benefits – the dental services covered under the Policy and described in this Certificate. 
Categories of benefits: 
Diagnostic - procedures  to  help  the  dentist  evaluate  Your  dental  health  to  determine  necessary 
treatment. 
Preventive - procedures to prevent dental disease (cleanings, for example). 
Basic - procedures necessary to restore the teeth (other than crowns or cast restorations), oral surgery, 
endodontic (root canals) and periodontic (gum) procedures. 
Crowns and cast restorations - caps, veneers, inlays and onlays. 
Prosthodontic - procedures involving bridges and dentures to replace missing teeth. 
Covered Services - those dental services to which benefit payment will be applied, according to the Table 
of Allowances. 
Dependent  means  only:  a)  Your  spouse  or  Domestic  Partner;  and  b)  Your,  Your  spouse's,  or  Domestic 
Partner’s  child  who  is  of  an  age  within  the  age  limits  for  Dependent  children  shown  in  the  Table  of 
Allowances.   The word “child” includes: a) Your step-child; b) the child of Your son or daughter if Your 
son or daughter is an insured Dependent under the Group Policy; c) the child of  Your domestic partner; 
and  d)  any  other  child  who  lives  with  You  and  for  whom  You  or  Your  Domestic  Partner  are  the  legal 
guardian.    A  child  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  Dependent  of  not  more  than  one  person.    Other  types  of 
dependents eligible for coverage, if any, are shown in the Table of Allowances. 
You  must  notify  us  immediately  upon  any  Dependent  changes,  including  the  termination  of  a  domestic 
partnership. 
Effective Date - the date Your coverage under the Policy starts. 
Eligible Dependent - any of the Insured’s dependents who are eligible to enroll for benefits in accordance 
with the eligibility provisions outlined in this Certificate. 
GTC-9872-2000 
4 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
GENERAL DEFINITIONS  
Eligible Person – the KFHP Individual Direct Pay Members and Eligible Dependents set forth under the  
ELIGIBILTY  section  of  this  Certificate,  and  persons  ceasing  to  meet  such  conditions  who  elect  continued 
coverage as provided under the CONTINUED COVERAGE OPTION section of this Certificate.  
Insured  –  the  Kaiser  Foundation  Health  Plan  (KFHP)  Individual  Direct  Pay  Member  enrolled  and  insured 
under the Policy.  
Maximum - the greatest dollar amount KPIC will pay for covered dental services in any calendar year. 
Explanation of Benefits (EOB) - a summary of covered expenses KPIC or its Administrator will send to You 
after Your dentist files a claim. 
Participating  Dentist  -  a  dentist  who  has  a  signed  agreement  with  KPIC  or  its  Administrator.    These 
dentists have filed their Usual fees, which have been accepted by KPIC or its Administrator as Customary 
and Reasonable.  They agree to charge this dental insurance plan’s patients these accepted fees. 
Predetermination - a pre-treatment estimate KPIC or its Administrator makes upon request of Your dentist, 
detailing what the plan will pay for a proposed treatment, and what Your responsibility will be. 
Premium - the money paid each month for You and Your dependents' dental coverage. 
Single  Procedure  -  a  dental  procedure  to  which  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  has  assigned  a  separate 
procedure  number;  for  example,  a  three-surface  amalgam  restoration  of  one  permanent  tooth  or  a 
complete upper denture, including adjustments for a six-month period following installation. 
Table of Allowances - the list of amounts KPIC will pay for each covered dental service. 
Usual, Customary and Reasonable (UCR): 
A USUAL fee is the amount which an individual dentist regularly charges and receives for a given service 
or the fee actually charged, whichever is less. 
A CUSTOMARY  fee  is  within  the  range  of  usual  fees  charged  and  received  for  a  particular  service  by 
dentists of similar training in the same geographic area. 
A REASONABLE fee can be Usual and Customary, or KPIC or its Administrator may agree that a fee that 
falls  above  Customary,  is  justified  by  a  superior  level  or  complexity  (difficulty)  of  treatment  than  that 
customarily provided.  
IMPORTANT:  If  you  opt  to  receive  dental  services  that  are  not  covered  services  under  this  policy,  a 
participating  provider  may  charge  You  his  or  her  usual  and  customary  rate  for  those  services.  Prior  to 
providing a patient with dental services that are not a covered benefit, the dentist should provide to the 
patient a treatment plan that includes each anticipated service to be provided and the estimated cost of 
each service. If you would like more information about dental coverage options, You may call KPIC or it’s 
Administrator  Delta  Dental  at  1(800)-835-2244.  To  fully  understand  your  coverage,  you  may  wish  to 
carefully review this evidence of coverage document. 
GTC-9872-2000 
5 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenELIGIBILITY 
KFHP  Individual  Direct  Pay  Members  are  eligible  to  enroll  in  this  plan  on  the  first  day  of  the  month 
coinciding  with  their  enrollment  under  Kaiser  Foundation  Health  Plan’s  Medical  Plan(s)  for  Individual 
Direct Pay Members.  
KFHP Individual Direct Pay Members shall have the option to enroll for coverage under the Policy under 
the following conditions: 
a.  KFHP Individual Direct Pay Members and their covered dependents may enroll only when first eligible 
b. 
or during an open enrollment period to be held not more than once annually. 
If both spouses qualify as KFHP Individual Direct Pay Members, one spouse may enroll as a dependent 
of the other spouse, but dependent children may enroll for coverage under only one Individual Direct 
Pay Member. 
c.  KFHP Individual Direct Pay Members shall agree to pay the monthly Premium. 
d.  KFHP  Individual  Direct  Pay  Members  who  enroll  agree  to  remain  enrolled  for  a  minimum  of  twelve 
(12) consecutive months.  KFHP Individual Direct Pay Members who discontinue coverage shall not be 
allowed to re-enroll until the next open enrollment period.  
e.  Once  a  KFHP  Individual  Direct  Pay  Member  elects  to  discontinue  dependent  coverage,  dependents 
may  not  be  re-enrolled  under  the  Policy  until  the  next  annual  open  enrollment  period,  unless  the 
dependent  is  the  subject  of  a  Qualified  Medical  Child  Support  Order  requiring  the  KFHP  Individual 
Direct Pay Member to provide the dependent Benefits under the Policy. 
Eligible Dependents are the KFHP Direct Pay Member’s spouse or domestic partner and Dependent 
children from 19 up to age 26. The Dependents of KFHP Direct Pay Members become Eligible Dependents 
on the same date that the KFHP Direct Pay Member, of whom they are a Dependent, becomes eligible for 
coverage under the Policy. Later-acquired Dependents become Eligible Dependents as soon as they 
acquire Dependent status.  
A dependent, 26 years or older, may continue to be an Eligible Dependent and coverage will continue if 
they are incapable of self-sustaining employment by reason of mental or physical handicap and if they are 
chiefly dependent upon the KFHP Direct Pay Member for support and maintenance. Proof of such 
handicap or incapacity and dependency must be submitted at least thirty-one (31) days prior to the 
Dependent child attaining the limiting age of 26 years, and subsequently as may be required by KPIC or its 
Administrator. Neither KPIC nor its Administrator will request such proof more frequently than annually 
after the child in question has reached age 26. 
Dependents in military service are not eligible. 
Every  KFHP  Individual  Direct  Pay  Member  and  his/her  respective  dependents  meeting  the  preceding 
conditions of eligibility are eligible for coverage under the Policy.  However, KPIC or its Administrator will 
not provide Benefits for any KFHP Individual Direct Pay Member or his/her respective dependents unless: 
(1)      the  KFHP  Individual  Direct  Pay  Member  enrolls  when  first  eligible  or  during  an  open  enrollment 
period; and (2) the appropriate monthly Premium payment is made as required by this Certificate, for the 
months in which KPIC provides coverage for covered dental services. 
A dependent's eligibility ends along with the KFHP Individual Direct Pay Member’s eligibility, or sooner if 
the dependent loses his or her dependent status, unless continued coverage is chosen in a timely fashion 
by or on behalf of the dependent(s) under the CONTINUED COVERAGE OPTION section of this Certificate.  
Eligibility for such continued coverage will continue for the period required by the option.  In any event, 
eligibility  ends  immediately  when  coverage  under  this  Certificate  or  the  Certificate  under  which  this 
Certificate is issued ends. 
GTC-9872-2000 
6 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenENROLLING IN THE DENTAL PLAN 
When  You  enroll  for  coverage  under  the  Policy,  You  are  enrolling  for  a  period  of  one  year.  If  You 
discontinue coverage before that year is up, You may not re-enroll until the next open enrollment period. 
You  and  Your  dependent’s  enrollment  under  the  Policy  must  parallel  the  enrollment  in  the  Kaiser 
Foundation Health Plan’s Medical Plan for Individual Direct Pay Members.  This means that if You enrolled 
Your dependents as members under Kaiser Foundation Health Plan’s Medical Plan, Your dependents must 
be enrolled under this dental insurance plan.  
Dependent Enrollment 
Eligible dependents are: 
•  Your spouse 
•  Your  or  Your  spouse's  unmarried  dependent  children  age  19  up  to  age  26.    Children  include  step-
children,  adopted  children,  children  placed  for  adoption,  and  foster  children  provided  they  are 
dependent on Your for support and maintenance. 
Payment Of Monthly Charges 
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, Inc. will bill the rate with their monthly medical rate. 
The  dental  coverage  described  herein  is  not  in  effect  until  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  receives  the  Initial 
Premium  from  the  Insured.    The  due  date  for  subsequent  Premium  is  the  10th  day  of  each  month.  The 
Insured agrees to pay subsequent Premium no later than 31 days following the Premium due date, unless the 
Insured  has  given  written  notice  requesting  termination  of  dental  coverage  under  the  Policy  in  accordance 
with the Termination section of this Certificate. The Insured will be responsible for the payment of pro rata 
Premium for the time dental coverage under the Policy was in force during the 31-day grace period. 
GTC-9872-2000 
7 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenHOW THE PLAN WORKS 
At  the  end  of  this  Certificate  You  will  find  a  Table  of  Allowances  which  lists  dental  procedures  and/or 
dollar amounts ("Plan Pays"). By  referring to this table, You  will be  able to  determine exactly how  much 
KPIC will pay toward any given procedure.  
During  a  typical  dental  office  visit,  You  might  receive  several  of  the  services  listed  in  Your  Table  of 
Allowances. 
After  each  claim  is  submitted,  You  will  receive  a  statement  from  KPIC  or  its  Administrator,  explaining 
which services were provided, what KPIC will pay and the amount You are responsible for paying. 
Deductible/Maximum 
You pay the first $25 of Table of Allowance expenses to meet Your per person calendar year deductible, 
up  to  a  Maximum  of  $75  for  Your  family.  There  is  no  deductible  on  diagnostic  and  preventive  services. 
Your benefits cover a Maximum of $1,000 of dental services for each covered enrollee per calendar year. 
Choosing Your Dentist 
Although You may choose any dentist, You get special advantages when You go to Participating Dentists. 
These dentists have agreed to handle all Your claims paperwork for You, and to charge only fees that have 
been  approved  by  KPIC  or  its  Administrator.  KPIC  reimburses  Participating  Dentists  directly,  so  You  are 
responsible  only  for  the  allowed  amount  not  covered  by  the  Table  of  Allowances.  If  You  go  to  a  non-
Participating  Dentist,  You  are  responsible  for  the  entire  bill  and  must  submit  a  claim  to  KPIC’s 
Administrator for reimbursement of covered dental procedures.  KPIC’s Administrator will reimburse You 
directly in accordance with the Table of Allowances. 
For a complete list of Participating Dentists in Your area, see Your benefits administrator or call  1-800-835-
2244, or you may visit KPIC’s contracted dental network at www.deltadentalins.com. 
Written notice of the occurrence or commencement of covered services, treatment and supplies must be 
provided to KPIC or its Administrator within 20 days after such loss, or as soon as is reasonably possible.  
Written  proof  of  such  loss  must  be  proved  to  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  within  90  days  after  such  loss.  
Failure to provide such proof shall neither invalidate nor reduce any claim if it is not reasonably possible 
to furnish such proof within such time, provided such proof is provided as soon as is reasonably possible 
and in no event, except in the absence of legal capacity of the claimant, later than one year from the time 
proof  is  otherwise  required.  If  a  claim  is  denied  due  to  a  Participating  Dentist’s  failure  to  make  a  timely 
submission, You shall not be liable to that dentist for the amount which would have been payable by KPIC, 
provided that You advised the dentist of Your eligibility at the time of treatment. 
GTC-9872-2000 
8 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenBENEFITS AND LIMITATIONS 
This dental insurance plan covers the following benefits when they are provided by a licensed dentist and 
when necessary and customary by the standards of generally accepted dental practice. 
I.  Diagnostic and Preventive Benefits 
Diagnostic: 
•  oral examinations; 
•  x-rays; 
•  diagnostic casts; 
•  biopsy/tissue examinations;  
•  emergency palliative treatment;  
•  specialist consultations. 
Preventive: 
•  prophylaxis treatments (cleanings);  
•  space maintainers. 
Limitations on Diagnostic and Preventive Benefits: 
1)  KPIC  will  pay  for  oral  examinations  (except  after  hour  exams  and  exams  for  observation), 
cleanings  (including  periodontal  cleanings  in  the  presence  of  inflamed  gums  or  any  combination 
thereof)  no  more  than  twice  in  a  calendar  year,  while  the  patient  is  an  Insured  under  any  KPIC 
dental insurance plans. A full mouth debridement is allowed once in a lifetime and counts toward 
the  cleaning  frequency  in  the  year  provided.  Note:  Periodontal  cleanings  and  full  mouth 
debridement are covered as a Basic Benefit, and routine cleanings are covered as a Diagnostic and 
Preventive Benefit. 
2)  X-ray limitations: 
a)  KPIC  will  limit  the  total  reimbursable  amount  to  the  Provider’s  Accepted  Fee  for  a  complete 
intraoral  series  when  the  fees  for  any  combination  of  intraoral  x-rays  in  a  single  treatment 
series meet or exceed the Accepted Fee for a complete intraoral series. 
b)  A complete intraoral series is limited to once every five (5) years. 
c)  Bitewing  x-rays  are  limited  one  (1)  time  in  each  calendar  year  for  Enrollees  19  and  over. 
Bitewings  of  any  type  are  disallowed  within  12  months  of  a  full  mouth  series  unless 
warranted by special circumstances. 
3)  Pulp vitality tests are allowed once per day when definitive treatment is not performed. 
4)  Specialist Consultations, screenings of patients, and assessments of patients are limited to once in 
a lifetime per Provider and count toward the oral exam frequency. 
GTC-9872-2000 
9 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenBENEFITS AND LIMITATIONS   
II. Basic Benefits 
Restorative: 
Endodontic: 
Periodontic: 
Sealants: 
Emergency 
palliative 
treatment 
Oral surgery:  Extractions  and  certain  other  surgical  procedures,  including  pre-  and  post-
operative care 
Amalgam,  synthetic  porcelain  and  plastic  restorations  (fillings)  for  treatment  of 
carious  lesions  (visible  destruction  of  hard  tooth  structure  resulting  from  the 
process of dental decay) 
Treatment of the tooth pulp (root canal treatments) 
Treatment of gums and bones supporting the teeth 
Protective coating for posterior molar (back) teeth 
Palliative (emergency) treatment of dental pain — minor procedure 
Limitations on Basic Benefits: 
1.  KPIC  will not cover or  replace an amalgam, synthetic porcelain or plastic restorations (fillings) or 
prefabricated  resin  and  stainless  steel  crowns  within  24  months  of  treatment  if  the  service  is 
provided  by  the  same  Provider/Provider  office.  Replacement  restorations  within  24  months  are 
included in the fee for the original restoration. 
2.  Protective  restorations  (sedative  fillings)  are  allowed  once  per  tooth  per  lifetime  when  definitive 
treatment is not performed on the same date of service. 
3.  Root canal therapy  and pupal therapy (resorbable  filling) are not covered  more than once in  any 
five year period. Retreatment of root canal therapy by the same Provider/Provider office within 24 
months is considered part of the original procedure. 
4.  Retreatment of apical surgery by the same Provider/Provider office within 24 months is considered 
part of the original procedure. 
5.  When allowed, retrograde fillings per root are limited to once in any 24 month period. 
6.  When allowed, root amputation per root and/or hemisection is limited to once in a lifetime. 
7.  Pin retention is covered not more than once in any 24 month period. 
8.  Palliative  treatment  is  covered  not  more  than  three  times  in  any  six  month  period,  and  the  fee 
includes all treatment provided other than required x-rays or select diagnostic procedures. 
9.  Periodontal limitations: 
a)  Benefits for periodontal scaling and root planing in the same quadrant are limited to once in 
every 24-month period. See note on additional Benefits during pregnancy. 
b)  Periodontal  surgery  in  the  same  quadrant  is  limited  to  once  in  every  36-month  period  and 
includes any surgical re-entry or scaling and root planning. 
c)  Periodontal  services,  including  bone  replacement  grafts,  guided  tissue  regeneration,  graft 
procedures  and  biological  materials  to  aid  in  soft  and  osseous  tissue  regeneration  are  only 
covered for the treatment of natural teeth and are not covered when submitted in conjunction 
with extractions, periradicular surgery, or ridge augmentation. 
GTC-9872-2000 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
10 
SpecimenBENEFITS AND LIMITATIONS   
d) 
If in the same quadrant, scaling and root planing must be performed at least six weeks prior 
to the periodontal surgery. 
e)  Cleanings (regular and periodontal) and full mouth debridement are subject to a 30 day wait 
following periodontal scaling and root planing if performed by the same Provider. 
f)  Periodontal  cleanings  Procedures  Codes  that  include  periodontal  cleanings  and  full  mouth 
debridement are covered as a Basic Benefit, and routine cleanings are covered as a Diagnostic 
and Preventive Benefit. See note on additional Benefits during pregnancy. 
10.  Covered oral surgery services are covered once in a lifetime  except removal of cysts and lesions 
and drainage procedures which are covered once in the same day. 
11.  Accession of tissue procedures and/or accession of exfoliative cytologic smears are allowed once 
in the same day. If more than one of these procedures is billed on the same day, for the same site, 
and by the same Provider/Provider office, KPIC will only pay for the most inclusive procedure. 
 Ill.  Crowns, Jackets, Inlays, Onlays and Cast Restoration Benefits 
Crowns, jackets, inlays, onlays and cast restorations will be covered when teeth cannot be restored 
with amalgam, synthetic porcelain or plastic restorations. 
Limitation on Crowns, Jackets, Inlays, Onlays and Cast Restoration Benefits 
Crowns,  inlays,  onlays  and  cast  restorations  will  be  replaced  only  after  five  (5)  years  have  elapsed 
following any prior provision under any of KPIC’s dental insurance plans. 
1)  Crowns and onlays are limited to Enrollees age 19 and older and are covered not more than once 
in any five (5) year period except when KPIC determines the existing crown or onlay is not 
satisfactory and cannot be made satisfactory because the tooth involved has experiences 
extensive loss or changes to tooth structure or supporting tissues. 
2)  When an alternate Benefit of an amalgam is allowed for inlays or porcelain/ceramic onlays, they 
are limited to Enrollees age 19 and older and are covered not more than once in any five (5) year 
period. 
3)  Core buildup, including any pins, are covered not more than once in any five (5) year period. 
4)  Post and core services are covered not more than once in any five (5) year period. 
5)  Crown repairs are covered not more than once in any five (5) year period. 
6)  When allowed within six months of a restoration, the Benefit for a crown, inlay/onlay, or fixed 
prosthodontic service will be reduced by the Benefit paid for the restoration. 
IV.  Prosthodontic Benefits 
Procedures for construction or repair of fixed bridges, partial or complete dentures. 
Limitations on Prosthodontic Benefits 
See Table of Allowances for further reference. 
1)  Denture repairs are covered not more than once in any six month period except for fixed denture 
repairs which are covered not more than once in any five (5) year period. 
GTC-9872-2000 
11 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
BENEFITS AND LIMITATIONS   
2)  Prosthodontic appliances that were provided under any KPIC program will be replaced only after 
five (5) years have passed, except when KPIC determines that there is such extensive loss of 
remaining teeth or change in supporting tissue that the existing fixed bridge or denture cannot be 
made satisfactory. Fixed prosthodontic appliances are limited to Enrollees age 19 and older. 
Replacement of a prosthodontic appliance not provided under a KPIC program will be made if KPIC 
determines it is unsatisfactory and cannot be made satisfactory. 
3)  When a posterior fixed bridge and a removable partial denture are placed in the same arch in the 
same treatment episode, only the partial denture will be a Benefit. 
4)  Recementation of crowns, inlays/onlays or bridges is included in the fee for the crown, inlay/onlay 
or bridge when performed by the same Provider/Provider office within six (6) months of the initial 
placement. After six (6) months payment will be limited to one (1) recementation in a lifetime by 
the same Provider/Provider office. 
KPIC limits payment for dentures to a standard partial or denture (Enrollee Coinsurances 
apply). A standard denture means a removable appliance to replace missing natural, 
permanent teeth that is 
1)  Made  from  acceptable  materials  by  conventional  means  and  includes  routine  post  delivery  care 
including any adjustments and relines for the first six (6) months after placement. 
a)  Denture rebase is limited to one (1) per arch in a 24 month period and includes any relining 
and adjustments for six (6) months following placement. 
b)  Dentures,  removable  partial  dentures  and  relines  include  adjustments  for  six  (6)  months 
following installation. After the initial six (6) months of an adjustment or reline, adjustments 
are limited to two (2) per arch in a 12-month period and relining is limited to one (1) per arch 
in a six (6) month period. 
c)  Tissue  conditioning  is  limited  to  two  (2)  per  arch  in  a  12  month  period.  However,  tissue 
conditioning  is  not  allowed  as  a  separate  Benefit  when  performed  on  the  same  day  as  a 
denture, reline or rebase service. 
d)  Recementation of fixed partial dentures is limited to once in a lifetime. 
2)  KPIC will not pay for implants (artificial teeth implanted into or on bone or gums), their removal or 
other associated procedures, but KPIC will credit the cost of a crown, pontic or standard complete 
or partial denture toward the cost of the implant associated appliance i.e., the implant supported 
crown or denture. The implant appliance is not covered. 
3)  A labial veneer performed chairside is covered once in a 24 month period. A laboratory processed 
labial  veneer  is  covered  once  every  5  years.  Labial  veneers  are  generally  considered  cosmetic 
services.  A single labial  veneer  may be  authorized if the tooth meets the  criteria for a laboratory 
processed crown. If a veneer is allowed, a repair is considered included in the original fee for the 
first 24 months and denied thereafter. 
NOTE:  Services  that  are  more  expensive  than  the  form  of  treatment  customarily  provided  under 
accepted dental practice standards are called “Optional Services.” Optional Services also include the 
use of specialized techniques instead of standard procedures. 
GTC-9872-2000 
12 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
Examples of Optional Services: 
BENEFITS AND LIMITATIONS   
a)  A composite restoration instead of an amalgam restoration on posterior teeth; 
b)  A crown where a filling would restore the tooth; 
c)  An inlay or porcelain/ceramic onlay instead of an amalgam restoration; or 
d)  Porcelain, resin or similar materials for crowns placed on a maxillary second or third molar, or on any 
mandibular molar (an allowance will be made for a porcelain fused to high noble metal crown. 
NOTE: Note on additional Benefits during pregnancy: 
When  an  Enrollee  is  pregnant,  Delta  Dental  will  pay  for  additional  services  to  help  improve  the  oral 
health  of  the  Enrollee  during  the  pregnancy.  The  additional  services  each  Calendar  Year  while  the 
Enrollee  is  covered  under  the  Contract  include  one  (1)  additional  oral  exam  and  either  one  (1) 
additional routine cleaning; one (1) additional periodontal scaling and root planning per quadrant; or 
one (1) additional periodontal maintenance procedure. Written confirmation of the pregnancy must be 
provided by the Enrollee or her Provider when the claim is submitted. 
GTC-9872-2000 
13 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
SERVICES NOT COVERED (EXCLUSIONS) 
I.  Services Not Covered (Exclusions) 
1.  Any  treatment  or  procedure  not  listed  as  Covered  Dental  Services  under  the  Benefits  and  Limitation 
section. 
2.  Charges  in  excess  of  the  Usual,  Customary  and  Reasonable  fee,  the  Fee  Actually  Charged,  or  the 
amounts listed on the Table of Allowances, whichever is less. 
3.  Treatment of injuries covered by Workers’ Compensation or Employer’s Liability Laws. 
4.  Services which are provided to the Covered Person by any Federal or State Governmental Agency or 
are  provided  without  cost  to  the  Covered  Person  by  any  municipality,  county  or  other  political 
subdivision, unless this exclusion is prohibited by law. 
5.  Services  for  congenital  (hereditary)  or  developmental  (following  birth)  malformations,  including  but 
not  limited  to  cleft  palate,  upper  and  lower  jaw  malformations,  enamel  hypoplasia  (lack  of 
development),  fluorosis  (a  type  of  discoloration  of  the  teeth)  and  anodontia  (congenitally  missing 
teeth), except those services provided to newborn children for medically diagnosed congenital defects 
or birth abnormalities. 
6.  Treatment to stabilize teeth, treatment to restore tooth structure lost from wear (abrasion, erosion), or 
treatment  to  rebuild  or  maintain  chewing  surfaces  due  to  teeth  out  of  alignment  or  occlusion.  
Examples  include  but  are  not  limited  to:  equilibration,  periodontal  splinting,  occlusal  adjustments  or 
occlusal guards and abfraction. 
7.  Any Single Procedure provided prior to the date the Enrollee became eligible for services under this 
dental plan. 
procedures. 
8.  Prescribed  drugs,  medication,  pain  killers,  antimicrobial  agents,  or  experimental/investigational 
9.  Experimental procedures. 
10.  Charges by any hospital or other surgical or treatment facility and any additional fees charged by the 
Provider for treatment in any such facility. 
11.  Charges  for  anesthesia,  except  for  general  anesthesia  administered  by  a  licensed  Provider  in 
connection with covered oral surgery procedures. 
12.  Extraoral grafts (grafting of tissues from outside the mouth to oral tissues). 
13.  Services  for  implants  (prosthetic  appliances  placed  into  or  on  the  bone  of the  upper  or  lower  jaw  to 
retain or support dental prosthesis) their removal or other associated procedures. 
14.  Services for any disturbance of the temporomandibular (jaw) joints or associated Musculature, nerves 
and other tissues (TMJ). 
15.  Replacement of existing restoration for any purpose other than active tooth decay. 
16.  Intravenous sedation, occlusal guards and complete occlusal adjustment. 
17.  Charges for replacement or repair of an orthodontic appliance paid in part or in full by this program. 
18.  Hypnosis. 
19.  Dental  practice  administrative  services  including  but  not  limited  to,  preparation  of  claims,  any  non-
treatment phase of dentistry such as provision of an antiseptic environment, sterilization of equipment 
or infection control, or any ancillary materials used during the routine course of providing treatment 
such as cotton swabs, gauze, bibs, masks or relaxation techniques such as music. 
20.  Charges for speech therapy. 
21.  Charges for lost or stolen appliances. 
22.  Services for which no charge is normally made in the absence of insurance. 
23.  Charges incurred for oral hygiene instruction, a plaque control program, preventive control programs including 
home  care  times,  dietary  instruction,  x-ray  duplications,  cancer  screening,  tobacco  counseling  or  broker 
appointments. 
24.  Orthodontic treatment.  
25.  Treatment  plans  that  are  more  expensive  than  those  customarily  provided  or  specialized  techniques  used 
instead of standard procedures; for example, a precision denture where a standard denture would suffice. 
26.  Maxillofacial prosthetics. 
GTC-9872-2000 
14 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenSERVICES NOT COVERED (EXCLUSIONS)  
27.  Provisional and/or temporary restorations except an interim removable partial denture is covered only 
to replace extracted anterior permanent teeth during the healing period. 
28.  Cosmetic surgery or procedures for purely cosmetic reasons. 
29.  Interim implants. 
30.  Indirectly fabricated resin-based inlays and onlays. 
31.  Treatment  by  someone  other  than  a  Provider  or  a  person  who  by  law  may  work  under  a  Provider’s 
32.  Services or supplies covered by any other health plan of the Contract holder. 
33.  Procedures having a questionable prognosis based on a dental consultant’s professional review of the 
direct supervision. 
submitted documentation. 
34.  Any  tax  imposed  (or  incurred)  by  a  government,  state  or  other  entity,  in  connection  with  any  fees 
charged for Benefits provided under the Contract, will be the responsibility of the Enrollee and not a 
covered Benefit. 
35.  Deductibles, amounts over plan maximums and/or any service not covered under the dental plan. 
36.  Services  covered  under  the  dental  plan  but  exceed  Benefit  limitations  or  are  not  in  accordance  with 
processing policies in effect at the time the claim is processed. 
37.  Procedures not shown on the Table of Allowances. 
GTC-9872-2000 
IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT SERVICE FROM A PARTICIPATING DENTIST 
15 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
If  You  have  questions  about  the  services  You  receive  from  a  Participating  Dentist,  We  recommend  that 
You first discuss the matter with Your dentist. If You continue to have concerns, call Our Administrator’s 
Quality Review department at 1-800 835-2244. If appropriate, KPIC’s Administrator can arrange for You to 
be  examined  by  one  of  its  consulting  dentists  in  Your  area.  If  the  consultant  recommends  the  work  be 
replaced  or  corrected,  KPIC’s  Administrator  will  intervene  with  the  original  dentist  to  either  have  the 
services replaced or corrected at no additional cost to You or to obtain a refund. In the latter case, You are 
free to choose another dentist to receive Your full benefits. 
GTC-9872-2000 
16 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
PREDETERMINATIONS 
After an examination, Your dentist will talk to You about treatment You may need. The cost of treatment is 
something You may want to consider. If the service is extensive and involves crowns or bridges, or if the 
service will cost more than $300, We encourage You to ask Your dentist to request a Predetermination. 
A Predetermination does not guarantee payment. It is an estimate of the amount KPIC will pay if You are 
eligible  and  meet  all  the  requirements  of  the  Policy  at  the  time  the  treatment  You  have  planned  is 
completed. 
In  order  to  receive  Predetermination,  Your  dentist  must  send  an  Attending  Dentist's  Statement  to  Us 
listing the proposed treatment. KPIC will send Your dentist a Notice of Predetermination which estimates 
how much of the treatment costs We will pay and how much You will have to pay. After You review the 
estimate  with  Your  dentist  and  decide  to  go  ahead  with  the  treatment  plan,  Your  dentist  returns  the 
statement to Us for payment when treatment has been completed. 
Computations  are  estimates  only  and  are  based  on  what  would  be  payable  on  the  date  the  Notice  of 
Predetermination is issued if the patient is eligible. Payment will depend on the patient's eligibility and the 
remaining annual maximum when completed services are submitted to KPIC. 
Predetermining  treatment  helps  prevent  any  misunderstanding  about  Your  financial  responsibilities.  If 
You  have  any  concerns  about  the  Predetermination,  let  Us  know  before  treatment  begins  so  Your 
questions can be answered before You incur any charge. 
GTC-9872-2000 
17 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenCLAIMS PAYMENT AND APPEAL 
Benefits, unless otherwise provided in this Certificate, are available from the Eligibility Date of the Eligible 
Person. 
An Eligible Person may choose the services of any licensed Dentist, but neither KPIC nor its Administrator 
guarantees the availability of any particular Dentist. 
Before  KPIC  is  obligated  to  approve  and/or  satisfy  any  claims  under  this  Certificate  or  the  Policy  under 
which this Certificate is issued, KPIC or its Administrator is entitled to receive, to such extent as is lawful, 
such  information  and  records  relating  to  attendance  to,  or  examination  of,  or  treatment  provided  to  an 
Insured from any attending or examining Dentist or from hospitals in which a Dentist's care is provided, as 
may  be  required  in  the  administration  of  such  claims;  or  to  require  that  an  Insured  be  examined  by  a 
dental consultant retained by and paid for by KPIC or its Administrator in or near his or her community or 
residence.    KPIC  and  its  Administrator  agrees  in  every  case  to  hold  such  information  and  records  as 
confidential. 
KPIC or KPIC Administrator will pay a Participating Dentist directly for covered dental services provided by 
that  Dentist.  CONTRACTS  BETWEEN  KPIC  or  KPIC’S  ADMINISTRATOR  AND  ITS  PARTICIPATING 
DENTISTS PROVIDE THAT, IN THE EVENT KPIC OR KPIC’S ADMINISTRATOR FAILS TO PAY THE DENTIST, 
THE INSURED WILL NOT OWE THE DENTIST FOR ANY SUMS OWED BY KPIC’S ADMINISTRATOR. 
KPIC will pay the Insured directly for services provided by a Dentist who is not a Participating Dentist, and 
those payments are not assignable.  
Written notice of the occurrence or commencement of covered services, treatment and supplies must be 
provided to KPIC within 20 days after such loss, or as soon as is reasonably possible. Written proof of such 
loss must be provided to KPIC within 90 days after such loss. Failure to provide such proof shall neither 
invalidate  nor  reduce  any  claim  if  it  is  not  reasonably  possible  to  furnish  such  proof  within  such  time, 
provided such proof is provided as soon as is reasonably possible and in no event, except in the absence 
of legal capacity of the claimant, later than one year from the time proof is otherwise required.  If a claim 
is denied because a Participating Dentist failed to make timely submission, the Insured does not owe that 
Dentist the amount which would have been payable by KPIC, provided that the Insured advised the Dentist 
of his or her eligibility for Benefits at the time of treatment. 
KPIC will give each Participating Dentist, and any other Dentist or Eligible Person, not later than 15 days 
after such request, a standard form to make a claim for payment for services covered by this Certificate. In 
order to make a claim for payment, such form (completed by the Dentist who provided the services and by 
the  Eligible  Person  or  the  patient's  parent  or  guardian  if  such  patient  is  a  minor)  must  be  submitted  to 
KPIC’s Administrator at the address on the form.  If KPIC fails to provide a claim form within 15 days after 
such  request,  the  person  making  such  claim  will  be  deemed  to  have  complied  with  the  requirements  of 
this Certificate as to proof of loss upon submitting, within the time fixed above, written proof covering the 
occurrence, character and extent of the loss for which claim is made. 
Benefits payable under the Policy shall be paid within 30 days of receipt of written proof of loss.  No action 
in law or in equity shall be brought on the Policy prior to the expiration of 60 days after proof of loss has 
been  filed  in  accordance  with  the  requirements  of  the  Policy,  and  no  such  action  shall  be  brought  at  all 
unless brought within three years from the expiration of time within which proof of loss is required under 
the Policy.  
KPIC agrees to notify the Insured if any services submitted on a claim under the preceding paragraph are 
denied coverage as Benefits, in whole or in part, stating the reason(s) for the denial.  Within sixty (60) days 
after receipt of such notice, the Insured may make a written request for review of such denial.  Such 
request for review must be addressed to KPIC’s Administrator, PO Box 997330, Sacramento, California 
95899-7330, Telephone (888) 335-8227, Attention: Benefit Services Department.  Such request for review 
must state the reason(s) why the Insured believes that the denial of the claim was in error and must 
request any pertinent documents which they wish to review. The Benefit Services Department of KPIC’s  
GTC-9872-2000 
18 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
CLAIMS PAYMENT AND APPEAL  
Administrator   will make a full and fair review of the claim. KPIC’s Administrator agrees to provide a 
decision on a request for review to the Insured in writing within 120 days after KPIC’s Administrator 
receives the request for review. 
The Benefits which KPIC provides are limited to the applicable percentages of Dentist's fees or allowances 
specified  in  this  Certificate.    KPIC  requires  the  Insured  to  pay  the  balance  of  any  such  fee  or  allowance, 
known as the "Patient Copayment", as a method of sharing the costs of providing dental Benefits between 
KPIC and the Insured.  If the Dentist discounts, waives or rebates any portion of the Patient Copayment to 
the Insured, KPIC only provides as Benefits the applicable percentages of the Dentist's fees or allowances 
reduced by the amount that such fees or allowances are discounted, waived or rebated. 
GTC-9872-2000 
19 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
OTHER OBLIGATIONS OF KPIC’S ADMINISTRATOR 
KPIC’s  Administrator  shall  encourage  Participating  Dentists  to  submit  a  standardized  Attending  Dentist's 
Statement  (ADS)  before  providing  service,  showing  the  patient's  dental  needs  and  the  treatment 
necessary in the professional judgment of the Dentist.  
KPIC’s Administrator shall predetermine, from the ADS and other data, what would be payable by KPIC’s 
Administrator  and  an  Insured  for  the  proposed  services  under  the  terms  of  this  plan  as  of  the  date  of 
Predetermination. 
Such  Predetermination  shall  not  constitute  a  guaranty  or  authorization  of  Benefits  under  this  Certificate, 
and  any  actual  payment  by  KPIC’s  Administrator  will  depend  on  the  patient's  eligibility  and  remaining 
annual maximum when completed services are reported to KPIC’s Administrator. 
KPIC’s Administrator shall advise Participating Dentists to notify the patient of all information provided by 
KPIC’s Administrator in the Predetermination. 
A Dentist may file an Attending Dentist's Statement before treatment, showing the services to be provided 
to an Insured. KPIC’s Administrator will predetermine the amount of Benefits payable under this Certificate 
listed  services.  Predeterminations  are  valid  for  sixty  (60)  days  from  the  date  of  the 
for  the 
Predetermination  but  no  longer  than  this  Certificate's  term  nor  beyond  the  date  the  patient's  eligibility 
ends. 
KPIC’s Administrator will not make any payment for services provided to a patient who is not an Eligible 
Person under the Policy when the service is provided.  
KPIC’s Administrator will provide professional review of the adequacy of service provided by Participating 
Dentists. 
KPIC or its Administrator agrees to furnish to the Insured on his/her Effective Date and at reasonable times 
thereafter, a directory of Participating Dentists who have agreed to provide the services described in this 
Certificate.    It  is  understood  that  the  dentists  listed  in  that  directory  may  change  from  time  to  time  and 
KPIC reserves the right to update the directory without prior notice to the Insured.  However, KPIC or its 
Administrator agrees to give notice to the Insured within a reasonable time of any Participating Dentist's 
termination  or  breach  of  contract,  or  inability  to  perform,  which  will  materially  and  adversely  affect  the 
Insured.   Current information concerning the Participating Dentist status of any dentist may be obtained 
by telephoning KPIC’s Administrator Membership 1-800 835-2244 or by visiting www.deltadentalins.com.  
The  dentists  providing  or  contracting  to  provide  dental  services  under  this  Certificate  are  solely 
responsible  for  those  dental  services,  and  in  no  case  will  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  or  KFHP  Individual 
Direct  Pay  Members  be  liable  for  any  act  or  omission  by  such  dentists,  their  agents  or  KFHP  Individual 
Direct Pay Members. 
KPIC’s  Administrator  agrees  to  give  the  Insured  a  Certificate  of  Insurance  summarizing  the  Benefits  to 
which  the  Insured  is  entitled  and  other  provisions  of  this  Certificate.    If  an  amendment  to  the  Certificate 
materially  affects  any  Benefits  described  in  such  Schedule,  KPIC’s  Administrator  will  issue  a  corrected 
Schedule, rider or inserts. 
GTC-9872-2000 
20 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
GTC-9872-2000 
21 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
IF YOU HAVE ADDITIONAL COVERAGE 
 (COORDINATION OF BENEFITS) 
COORDINATION OF BENEFITS: 
This coordination of benefits (COB) provision applies to this plan when an insured or the insureds covered 
dependent has health care coverage under more than one (1) plan. Plan and this plan are defined here. 
If this COB provision applies, the order of benefit determination rules should be looked at first. Those rules 
determine  whether  the  benefits  of  this  plan  are  determined  before  or  after  those  of  another  plan.  The 
benefits of this plan: 
a)  Shall  not  be  reduced  when,  under  the  order  of  benefit  determination  rules,  this  plan  determines  its 
benefits before another plan; but 
b)  May  be  reduced  when,  under  the  order  of  benefits  determination  rules,  another  plan  determines  its 
benefits first. This reduction is described in Section- Effect on the Benefits of This Plan. 
DEFINITIONS: 
A.  Plan  is  any  of  these  which  provides  benefits  or  services  for,  or  because  of,  medical  or  dental  care  or 
treatment: 
1.  Group insurance or group-type coverage, whether insured or uninsured. This includes prepayment, 
group practice or individual practice coverage. It also includes coverage other than school accident-
type coverage. 
2.  Coverage  under  a  governmental  plan,  or  coverage  required  or  provided  by  law.  This  does  not 
include a state plan under Medicaid (Title XIX, Grants to States for Medical Assistance Plans, of the 
United States Social Security Act). Each contract or other arrangement for coverage under (1) or (2) 
is a separate plan. Also, if an arrangement has two (2) parts and COB rules apply only to one (1) of 
the two (2), each of the parts is a separate plan. 
B. This plan is the part of the Trust Policy that provides benefits for dental care expenses. 
C.  Primary  plan/secondary  plan.  The  order  of  benefit  determination  rules  state  whether  this  plan  is  a 
primary  plan  or  secondary  plan  as  to  another  plan  covering  the  person.  When  this  plan  is  a  primary 
plan,  its  benefits  are  determined  before  those  of  the  other  plan  and  without  considering  the  other 
plan's benefits. When this plan is a secondary plan, its benefits are determined after those of the other 
plan and may be reduced because of the other plan's benefits. When there are more than two (2) plans 
covering the person, this plan may be a primary plan as to one (1) or more other plans and may be a 
secondary plan as to a different plan(s). 
D.  Allowable  expense  means  a  necessary,  reasonable  and  customary  item  of  expense  for  health  care, 
when the item of expense is covered at least in part by one (1) or more plans covering the person for 
whom the claim is made. The difference between the cost of a private hospital room and the cost of a 
semi-private  hospital  room  is  not  considered  an  allowable  expense  under  this  definition  unless  the 
patient's  stay  in  a  private  hospital  room  is  medically  necessary  either  in  terms  of  generally  accepted 
medical  practice  or  as  specifically  defined  in  the  plan.  When  a  plan  provides  benefits  in  the  form  of 
services,  the  reasonable  cash  value  of  each  service  rendered  will  be  considered  both  an  allowable 
expense and a benefit paid. When benefits are reduced under a primary plan because a covered person 
does  not  comply  with  the  plan  provisions,  the  amount  of  that  reduction  will  not  be  considered  an 
allowable  expense.  Examples  of  these  provisions  are  those  related  to  second  surgical  opinions, 
precertification of admissions or services, and preferred provider arrangements. 
E.  Claim  determination  period  means  a  calendar  year.  However,  it  does  not  include  any  part  of  a  year 
during which a person has no coverage under this plan or any part of a year before the date this COB 
provision or similar provision takes effect. 
GTC-9872-2000 
22 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenIF YOU HAVE ADDITIONAL COVERAGE   
(COORDINATION OF BENEFITS) 
ORDER OF BENEFIT DETERMINATION RULES: 
A.  General. When there is a basis for a claim under this plan and another plan. This plan is a secondary 
plan which has its benefits determined after those of the other plan, unless: 
1.  The other plan has rules coordinating its benefits with those of this plan; and 
2.  Both those rules and this plan's rules require that this plan's benefits be determined before those 
of the other plan. 
B.  Rules.  This plan determines its order of benefits using the first of the following rules which applies: 
1.  Nondependent/dependent.  The  benefits  of  the  plan  which  covers  the  person  as  an  employee, 
member  or  Insured  (that  is,  other  than  as  a  dependent)  are  determined  before  those  of  the  plan 
which covers the person as a dependent; except that -- if the person is also a Medicare beneficiary, 
and  as  a  result  of  the  rule  established  by  Title  XVIII  of  the  Social  Security  Act  and  implementing 
regulations, Medicare is: 
a.  Secondary to the plan covering the person as a dependent; and 
b.  Primary  to  the  plan  covering  the  person  as  other  than  a  dependent  (for  example,  a  retired 
employee),  then  the  benefits  of  the  plan  covering  the  person  as  a  dependent  are  determined 
before those of the plan covering that person as other than a dependent. 
2.  Dependent child/parents not separated or divorced. Except as stated, when this plan and another 
plan cover the same child as a dependent of different persons, called parents: 
a.  The  benefits  of  the  plan  of  the  parent  whose  birthday  falls  earlier  in  a  year  are  determined 
before those of the plan of the parent whose birthday falls later in that year; but 
If both parents have the same birthday, the benefits of the plan which covered one (1) parent 
longer are determined before those of the plans which covered the other parent for a shorter 
period of time.  However, if the other plan does not have the rule described previously and if, 
as  a  result,  the  plans  do  not  agree  on  the  order  of  benefits,  the  rule  in  the  other  plan  will 
determine the order of benefits. 
3.  Dependent  child/separated  or  divorced.  If  two  (2)  or  more  plans  cover  a  person  as  a  dependent 
child of divorced or separated parents, benefits for the child are determined in this order: 
a.  First, the plan of the parent with custody of the child; 
b.  Then, the plan of the spouse of the parent with the custody of the child; and 
c.  Finally, the plan of the parent not having custody of the child; 
If  the  specific  terms  of  a  court  decree  state  that  one  (1)  of  the  parents  is  responsible  for  the 
health care expense of the child and the entity obligated to pay or provide the benefits of the 
plan  of  that  parent  or  spouse  of  the  other  parent  has  actual  knowledge  of  those  terms,  the 
benefits of that plan are determined first.  This paragraph does not apply with respect to any 
claim  determination  period  or  plan  year  during  which  any  benefits  are  actually  paid  or 
provided before the entity has that actual knowledge; or 
b. 
d. 
GTC-9872-2000 
23 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenIF YOU HAVE ADDITIONAL COVERAGE   
(COORDINATION OF BENEFITS) 
e. 
If the specific terms of a court degree state that the parents shall share joint custody, without 
stating that one (1) of the parents is responsible for the health care expenses of the child, the 
plans covering the child shall follow the Order Of Benefit Determination Rules. 
4.  Active/inactive  employee.  The  benefits  of  a  plan  which  covers  a  person  as  an  employee  who  is 
neither laid off nor retired are determined before those of a plan which covers that person as a laid 
off or retired employee. The same would hold true if a person is a dependent of a person covered 
as a retiree and an employee. If the other plan does not have this rule and if, as a result, the plans 
do not agree on the order of benefits, this rule (5) is ignored. 
5.  Continuation  of  coverage.  If  a  person  whose  coverage  is  provided  under  a  right  of  continuation 
pursuant to federal or state law also is covered under another plan, the following shall be the order 
of benefit determination: 
a.  First, the benefits of a plan covering the person as an employee, member or Insured (or as that 
person's dependent); and 
b.  Second, the benefits under the continuation coverage. If the other plan does not have the rule 
described here and if, as a result, the plans do not agree on the order of benefits, this rule is 
ignored. 
6.  Longer/shorter length of coverage. If none of the previous rules determines the order of benefits, 
the  benefits  of  the  plan  which  covered  an  employee,  member  or  Insured  longer  are  determined 
before those of the plan which covered that person for the shorter term. 
EFFECT ON THE BENEFITS OF THIS PLAN: 
When This Section Applies: This section applies when, in accordance with Order Of Benefit Determination 
Rules, this plan is a secondary plan as to one (1) or more other plans. In that event the benefits of this plan 
may be reduced under this section. 
Reduction in this plan's benefits: The benefits of this plan will be reduced when the sum of: 
1.  The  benefits  that  would  be  payable  for  the  allowable  expense  under  this  plan  in  the  absence  of  this 
COB provision; and 
2.  The benefits that would be payable for the allowable expenses under the other plans, in the absence of 
provisions with a purpose like that of this COB provision, whether or not claim is made, exceeds those 
allowable  expenses  in  a  claim  determination  period.  In  that  case,  the  benefits  of  this  plan  will  be 
reduced  so  that  they  and  the  benefits  payable  under  the  other  plans  do  not  total  more  than  those 
allowable expenses. When the benefits of this plan are reduced as described previously, each benefit is 
reduced in proportion. It is then charged against any applicable benefit limit of this plan. 
. 
RIGHT TO RECEIVE AND RELEASE NEEDED INFORMATION: 
Certain facts are needed to apply these COB rules. KPIC Dental has the right to decide which facts it needs. 
It may get needed facts from, or give them to, any other organization or person. KPIC Dental need not tell 
or get the consent of any person to do this. Each person claiming benefits under this plan must give KPIC 
Dental any facts it needs to pay the claim. 
GTC-9872-2000 
24 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenIF YOU HAVE ADDITIONAL COVERAGE   
(COORDINATION OF BENEFITS) 
FACILITY OF PAYMENT: 
A  payment  made  under  another  plan  may  include  an  amount  which  should  have  been  paid  under  This 
Plan.  If  it  does,  KPIC  Dental  may  pay  that  amount  to  the  organization  which  made  the  payment.  That 
amount will then be treated as though it were a benefit paid under this plan. KPIC Dental will not have to 
pay  that  amount  again.  The  term  payment  made  includes  providing  benefits  in  the  form  of  services,  in 
which case payment made means reasonable cash value of the benefits provided in the form of services. 
RIGHT OF RECOVERY: 
If  the  amount  of  the  payments  made  by  (insurer)  is  more  than  it  should  have  paid  under  this  COB 
provision, it may recover the excess from one (1) or more of: 
A. The person it has paid or for whom it has paid; 
B.  Insurance companies; or 
C.  Other  organizations.  The  amount  of  the  payments  made  includes  the  reasonable  cash  value  of  any 
benefits provided in the form of services. 
Subrogation will not be allowed in any plan as distinguished from the rights to recovery. 
GTC-9872-2000 
25 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
a. 
b. 
c. 
d. 
Coverage described herein may be terminated for the following causes: 
TERMINATION AND RENEWAL 
The  Insured  fails  to  remit  Premium  on  or  before  its  due  date  subject  to  the  31-day  grace 
period. 
By KPIC if the Policyholder fails:  (1)  to give KPIC or its Administrator, a list of all Enrolled Eligible 
Persons, as required under Article II; or (2) to permit the inspection of the Policyholder’s records as 
called  for  under  Article  II,  or  (3)  to  pay  Premiums  as  provided  in  Article  III  of  the  Policy,  but  only 
after the Policyholder has been duly notified of such failure (and billed for Premium, if applicable) 
and at least fifteen (15) days have elapsed since the date of notification. 
By election of either the Policyholder or KPIC: (1) upon expiration of a Contract Term; or (2) 
during a Contract Term, if by mutual agreement.  
By KPIC if the number of Enrolled Eligible Person reported by the Policyholder is less than ten (10) 
in  each  of  three  (3)  consecutive  months,  but  only  if  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  gives  written  notice 
not more than fifteen (15) days after it receives the list of Enrolled Eligible Persons which indicates 
that such grounds for termination exists.  Termination is effective as of the last day of the month in 
which written notice if termination is given. 
Such  termination  shall  be  without  prejudice  to  any  expense  originating  prior  to  the  effective  date  of 
termination. 
If KPIC or its Administrator terminates this coverage under (a) above, written notice will be provided to the 
Certificate Holder  at least 31 days prior to the effective date of such action  (or in the case of  a Producer 
within 45 days of such action), all Benefits will end, and KPIC and its Administrator will be released from 
all  further  obligations  of  this  Certificate  as  of  the  date  indicated  in  the  written  notice.  The  Insured  will 
remain liable to KPIC for the unpaid Premium applicable for the period this Certificate was in effect before 
termination.  
If the Certificate Holder chooses to terminate this coverage at the end of a Contract Term, he or she must 
give at least thirty (30) days written notice of termination to KPIC’s Administrator. 
If KPIC or its Administrator wants to change the Premium or Benefits effective at the beginning of the next 
Contract  Term,  KPIC  will  give  at  least  sixty  (60) days  advance  written  notice  of  such  changes  to  the 
Insured. Such an advance notice will have the effect of a notice of termination as of the end of the Contract 
Term, unless the Insured agrees to the new provisions. 
If the Insured notifies KPIC or its Administrator in writing of its intention to terminate this Certificate as of 
any date other than the end of the Contract Term, such notice will be treated as a failure to pay Premium, 
and such notice will constitute a waiver of the notification and billing required of KPIC or its Administrator 
under this Certificate. 
If  the  Insured  believes  that  this  Certificate,  or  coverage  hereunder,  has  been  terminated  or  not  renewed 
due to his/her dental/health status or requirements for dental services, he/she may request a review by the 
Commissioner of the Department of Insurance of the state in which this Certificate was issued. 
If  this  Certificate  is  terminated  for  any  cause,  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  is  not  required  to  predetermine 
services beyond the termination date or to pay for services provided  after such termination date, except 
for  the  completion  of  Single  Procedures  begun  while  this  Certificate  was  in  effect  which  are  otherwise 
Benefits under this Certificate. 
Within  30  days  after  the  end  of  this  Certificate,  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  will  return  to  the  Insured  any 
Premium paid which are applicable to a time period after the termination date, together with amounts due 
on claims, if any, less any amounts due to KPIC or its Administrator. 
If KPIC accepts the proper amount of Premium, after termination of this Certificate and without requiring a 
26 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
GTC-9872-2000 
SpecimenTERMINATION AND RENEWAL   
new application, that acceptance will reinstate this Certificate as though never terminated, unless KPIC or 
its  Administrator,  within  five  (5)  business  days  after  it  receives  such  payment,  either:  (1) refunds  the 
payment  so  made;  or  (2) issues  a  new  certificate  accompanied  by  written  notice  stating  clearly  those 
respects  in  which  the  new  certificate  differs  from  the  terminated  certificate  in  Benefits,  coverage,  or 
otherwise. 
All Benefits end for the Insured and his/her covered dependents when this Certificate ends, and KPIC will 
not provide continuation of Benefits to such persons in that event. 
KPIC or its Administrator must notify the Insured in writing of any termination.  
The  validity  of  this  Certificate  shall  not  be  contested,  except  for  nonpayment  of  premiums,  after  it  has 
been in force for two years from the date of issue, and no statement made by any person covered under 
the Certificate relating to insurability shall be used in contesting the validity of the insurance with respect 
to which such statement was made after such insurance has been in force prior to the contest for a period 
of  two  years  during  such  person’s  lifetime  unless  it  is  contained  in  a  written  instrument  signed  by  the 
person making such statement. Nothing in this Certificate shall be construed in such a way as to prevent 
KPIC’s Administrator from contesting, at any time, the eligibility of an Insured.  
GTC-9872-2000 
27 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenCONTINUED COVERAGE OPTION 
For purposes of this Option, the following are "Qualifying Events": 
a.  Death of the Insured; 
b.  Divorce or legal separation from the Insured;  
c.  The Insured becoming entitled to Medicare benefits; 
d.  A dependent child ceasing to meet the description of dependent child; and/or 
e.  A Federal Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding which (within one year before or one year after the filing) 
causes a substantial elimination of coverage of the Insured or the Insured’s Eligible Dependents.    
Eligible Dependents whose coverage under this plan ends due to Qualifying Events “a”, “b”, “c”, or “d”, 
may  choose  to  continue  their  coverage  for  thirty-six  (36) months  following  the  month  in  which  the 
Qualifying Event occurs. 
A  Eligible  Person  whose  coverage  under  this  plan  ends  due  to  Qualifying  Event “e”  may  choose  to 
continue their coverage until death (in the case of an Eligible Person), or for thirty-six (36) months after the 
date of death of the Eligible Person (in the case of Eligible Dependents of a retired Eligible Employee). 
Continued coverage can  be chosen only by notice to KPIC’s Administrator  which must be given no  later 
than  sixty  (60) days  after  a  termination  of  coverage  by  reason  of  a  Qualifying  Event,  or  within  sixty 
(60) days after the Insured receives a notice from KPIC’s Administrator about his or her rights to continued 
coverage  because  of  the  particular  Qualifying  Event,  whichever  is  later.    Persons  for  whom  a  Qualifying 
Event described in b or d occurs must report it to KPIC’s Administrator within sixty (60) days, or lose their 
right to choose continued coverage. 
Continued  coverage  chosen  by  a  person  under  this  Section  is  effective  on  the  first  day  of  the  month 
following the applicable Qualifying Event described above. However, Benefits are not available to a person 
choosing continuing coverage until KPIC’s Administrator receives the data about such person as required 
hereunder, along with all Premium then due for such person.  KPIC’s Administrator will not, in any event, 
make  Benefits  available  hereunder  with  respect  to  any  person  for  whom  KPIC’s  Administrator  does  not 
receive such information and Premium within sixty (60) days after the date such person is required under 
this Option to notify KPIC’s Administrator of his or her election. 
Continued coverage will be the same as the coverage for similarly situated Insureds under this Certificate, 
and  if  coverage  is  modified  for  such  Insureds,  coverage  for  persons  having  continued  coverage  will  be 
modified at the same time and in the same manner. 
A person's continued coverage chosen under this Section will end on the last day of the month in which 
any of the following events first occurs: 
a.  The period of continued coverage specified above ends. 
b.  This Certificate ends. 
c. 
d.  The person with continued coverage becomes covered for dental Benefits under another group health 
plan (as an employee or otherwise) which does not contain any exclusion or limitation with respect to 
any pre-existing condition of such person covered under this plan. 
Insured fails to pay Premium for the person as required by this Certificate. 
e.  The person becomes eligible for Medicare benefits. 
Once continued coverage under this Option ends, it cannot be reinstated.  
GTC-9872-2000 
28 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Specimen 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
No  agent  has  authority  to  change  this  Certificate  or  waive  any  of  its  provisions.    No  change  in  this 
Certificate  is  valid  unless  approved  by  an  executive  officer  of  KPIC  and  included  in  this  Certificate  by 
written amendment. 
The provisions of this Certificate are severable.  If any portion of this Certificate or any Amendment of it is 
determined  to  be  illegal,  void,  or  unenforceable  by  any  court,  or  other  competent  authority,  all  other 
provisions of this Certificate will remain in effect. 
The  parties  agree  that  all  questions  regarding  the  interpretation  or  enforcement  of  this  Certificate  are 
governed by the laws of the state in which the Policy was issued, where the Policy was entered into and is 
to be performed. Any provisions required to be in this Certificate by those laws bind KPIC whether or not 
stated in this Certificate. 
KPIC and KPIC’s Administrator agrees to consult each other to the extent reasonably practical concerning 
all  materials  published  or  distributed  relating  to  this  Certificate.  Neither  KPIC  nor  its  Administrator  will 
publish or distribute materials which are contrary to the terms of this Certificate. 
KPIC  agrees  to  permit  and  encourage  the  professional  relationship  between  Dentist  and  patient  to  be 
maintained without interference. 
All  notifications  required  under  this  Certificate  are  fulfilled  by  directly  notifying  KPIC’s  Administrator.  
KPIC’s Administrator for this insurance plan is: 
Such notice will be effective forty-eight (48) hours after deposit in the United States mail with postage fully 
prepaid thereon. 
Conditions Under which KPIC or its Administrator Will Provide Benefits 
KPIC or its Administrator agrees to notify the Insured in writing within thirty (30) days of the receipt of a 
claim for loss if any services are denied coverage for Benefits, in whole or in part, stating the reason(s) for 
the denial. 
If KPIC or its Administrator discovers that it has overpaid a provider for professional services, KPIC or its 
Administrator  may  notify  the  provider  in  writing  through  a  separate  notice  identifying  the  overpayment 
amount. 
Upon  receipt  of  the  notice,  the  provider  must  either  reimburse  KPIC  or  its  Administrator  or  notify  such 
entity in writing of any contested portion within thirty (30) days.  If the provider contests the overpayment, 
it must identify the contested portion and specify the reason(s) for contesting.  
Delta Dental of California 
PO Box 997330 
Sacramento, CA  95899-7330 
GTC-9872-2000 
29 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
KPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(Maximum Amount Payable For Covered Dental Services*) 
$1,000.00 
Individual: 
Calendar Year Benefit Maximum: 
Calendar Year Deductibles: 
$25.00 
                        Family:                                   $75.00 
Code 
Procedure 
D0100-D0999  DIAGNOSTIC 
Clinical oral evaluations 
D0120  Periodic oral evaluation  ..............................................................................................................  
D0140  Limited oral evaluation – problem focused  .................................................................................  
D0150  Comprehensive oral evaluation – new or established patient…………………………………….. 
D0160  Detailed and extensive oral evaluation, problem focused  ..........................................................  
D0170  Reevaluation limited problem focused (established patient; not post operative visit)  ................  
D0180  Comprehensive periodontal evaluation – new or established patient  ........................................  
Pre-Diagnostic Services 
D0190  Screening of a patient ………………………………………………………………………………… 
D0191  Assessment of a patient ……………………………………………………………………………… 
Radiographs/diagnostic imaging (including interpretation) 
Intraoral – complete seriesof radiographic images ......................................................................  
D0210 
Intraoral periapical – first radiographic image .............................................................................  
D0220 
Intraoral periapical – each additional radiographic image ...........................................................  
D0230 
D0240 
Intraoral – occlusal radiographic image .......................................................................................  
D0250  Extraoral – first  radiographic image  ...........................................................................................  
D0270  Bitewing – single  radiographic image .........................................................................................  
D0272  Bitewings – tworadiographic images ...........................................................................................  
D0273  Bitewings – three  radiographic images 
………………………………………………………………………………… 
D0274  Bitewings – four  radiographic images 
………………………………………………………………………………….. 
D0277  Vertical bitewings – 7 to 8 radiographic images ..........................................................................   
D0330  Panoramic radiographic image ....................................................................................................  
Oral pathology laboratory 
D0419  Assessment of salivary flow by measurement……………………………………………………… 
D0472  Accession of tissue, gross examination, preparation and transmission of written report  ...........  
D0473  Accession of tissue, gross & microscopic examination, preparation and transmission of 
written report  ...............................................................................................................................  
D0474  Accession of tissue, gross & micro exam, assessment of surgical margins for presence of 
disease, preparation and transmission of written report  .............................................................  
Risk assessment 
D0601 
GTC-9872-2000 
Caries risk assessment and documentation, with finding of low 
risk……………………………… 
30 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Allowance 
18.00 
25.20 
25.20 
21.00 
21.00 
21.00 
12.60 
12.60 
54.00 
12.00 
5.00 
12.00 
19.00 
11.00 
17.00 
20.50 
24.00 
45.00 
37.00 
2.00 
59.00 
59.00 
59.00 
3.00 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Procedure 
Code 
D0602  Caries risk assessment and documentation, with finding of moderate risk……………………… 
D0603  Caries risk assessment and documentation, with finding of high risk…………………………… 
D1000-D1999  PREVENTIVE 
Dental prophylaxis 
D1110  Prophylaxis – adult  .....................................................................................................................  
D2000-D2999  RESTORATIVE – Procedures subject to 6 month waiting period  
Amalgam restorations (including polishing) 
D2140  Amalgam – one surface, primary or permanent  .........................................................................  
D2150  Amalgam – two surfaces, primary or permanent  ........................................................................  
D2160  Amalgam – three surfaces, primary or permanent  .....................................................................  
D2161  Amalgam – four or more surfaces, primary or permanent ..........................................................  
Resin – based composite restorations – direct  
D2330  Resin-based composite – one surface, anterior  .........................................................................  
D2331  Resin-based composite – two surfaces, anterior  .......................................................................  
D2332  Resin-based composite – three surfaces, anterior  .....................................................................  
D2335  Resin-based composite – four or more surfaces or involving incisal angle (anterior) ................  
D2390  Resin-based composite crown, anterior  .....................................................................................  
D2391  Resin-based composite – one surface, posterior  .......................................................................  
D2392  Resin-based composite – two surfaces, posterior ......................................................................  
D2393  Resin-based composite – three surfaces, posterior  ...................................................................  
D2394  Resin-based composite – four or more surfaces, posterior  .......................................................  
Inlay/onlay restorations 
Inlay – metallic – one surface  .....................................................................................................  
D2510 
Inlay – metallic – two surfaces ....................................................................................................  
D2520 
Inlay – metallic – three or more surfaces  ...................................................................................  
D2530 
D2542  Onlay – metallic – two surfaces  ..................................................................................................  
D2543  Onlay – metallic – three surfaces  ...............................................................................................  
D2544  Onlay – metallic – four or more surfaces  ....................................................................................  
Inlay – resin-based composite – one surface……………………………………………………….. 
D2650 
Inlay – resin-based composite – two surfaces  ...........................................................................  
D2651 
D2652 
Inlay – resin-based composite – three or more surfaces………………………………………….. 
D2662  Onlay – resin-based composite – two surfaces ...........................................................................  
D2663  Onlay – resin-based composite – three surfaces ........................................................................  
D2664  Onlay – resin-based composite – four surfaces ..........................................................................  
Crowns – single restoration only 
D2710  Crown – resin-based composite (indirect)  ..................................................................................  
D2712  Crown – ¾ resin-based composite (indirect) ……………………………………………………..... 
D2720  Crown – resin with high noble metal  ..........................................................................................  
D2721  Crown – resin with predominantly base metal  ............................................................................  
D2722  Crown – resin with noble metal  ..................................................................................................  
D2740  Crown – porcelain/ceramic substrate  .........................................................................................  
D2750  Crown – porcelain fused to high noble metal  .............................................................................  
D2751  Crown – porcelain fused to predominantly base metal  ..............................................................  
D2752  Crown – porcelain fused to noble metal  .....................................................................................  
D2753  Crown – porcelain fused to titanium and titanium alloys…………………………………………… 
D2780  Crown – ¾ cast high noble metal  ...............................................................................................  
D2781  Crown – ¾ cast predominantly base metal  ................................................................................  
GTC-9872-2000 
31 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Allowance 
3.00 
3.00 
43.20 
35.00 
43.00 
52.00 
58.00 
46.00 
46.00 
46.00 
68.00 
114.00 
 47.00 
64.00 
80.00 
80.00 
99.00 
 133.00 
150.00 
191.00 
191.00 
191.00 
34.00 
50.00 
63.00 
50.00 
63.00 
63.00 
80.00 
80.00 
182.00 
163.00 
177.00 
 192.00 
182.00 
163.00 
177.00 
182.00 
186.00 
186.00 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Procedure 
Code 
Allowance 
D2782  Crown – ¾ cast noble metal  .......................................................................................................  
D2790    Crown – full cast high noble metal…………………………………………………………………… 
D2791    Crown – full cast predominantly base metal………………………………………………………… 
D2792  Crown – full cast noble metal…………………………………………………………………………. 
D2794  Crown – titanium……………………………………………………………………………………….. 
Other restorative services 
D2910  Re-cement or re-bond inlay, onlay, veneer or partial coverage restoration ................................  
D2915  Re-cement or re-bond indirectly fabricated or prefabricated post and core …………………… 
D2920  Re-cement or re-bond crown  ......................................................................................................  
D2921  Reattachment of tooth fragment, incisal edge or cups 
D2931  Prefabricated stainless steel crown – permanent tooth  .............................................................  
D2932  Prefabricated resin crown  ...........................................................................................................  
D2933  Prefabricated stainless steel crown with resin window  ..............................................................  
D2950  Core buildup, including any pins when required …………………………………………………… 
D2951  Pin Retention – per tooth, in addition to restoration  ...................................................................  
D2952  Post and core in addition to crown, indirectly fabricated  ............................................................  
D2954  Prefabricated post and core in addition to crown  .......................................................................  
D2960  Labial veneer (resin laminate) – chairside…………………………………………………………... 
D2961  Labial veneer (resin laminate) – laboratory  ................................................................................  
D2962  Labial veneer (porcelain laminate) – laboratory  .........................................................................  
D2980  Crown repair - necessitated by restorative material failure……………………………… …… 
D3000-D3999  ENDODONTICS – Procedures subject to 6 month waiting period  
Pulpotomy 
D3220  Therapeutic pulpotomy (excluding final restoration) – removal of pulp coronal to the 
dentinocemental junction and application of medicament  ..........................................................  
D3221  Pulpal debridement primary/or permanent teeth 
D3222  Partial pulpotomy – for apexogenesis - permanent tooth with incomplete root development 
D3230  Pulpal therapy (resprbable filling)- anterior, primary tooth (excluding final restoration)………... 
D3240  Pulpal therapy (resorbable filling) – posterior, primary tooth (excluding final restoration)  .........  
Endodontic therapy (including treatment plan, clinical procedures, and follow-up care)  
D3310  Endodontic therapy, anterior tooth (excluding final restoration)  .................................................  
D3320  Endodontic therapy, bicuspid tooth (excluding final restoration)  ................................................  
D3330  Endodontic therapy, molar tooth (excluding final restoration)  ....................................................  
D3333  Endodontic therapy, molar tooth (excluding final restoration) ……………………………………. 
Endodontic retreatment 
D3346  Re-treatment of previous root canal therapy – anterior……………………………………………. 
D3347  Re-treatment of previous root canal therapy – bicuspid  .............................................................  
D3348  Re-treatment of previous root canal therapy – molar  .................................................................  
186.00 
183.00 
170.00 
178.00 
183.00 
27.00 
27.00 
27.00 
51.00 
74.00 
80.00 
90.00 
43.00 
20.00 
92.00 
75.00 
116.00 
128.00 
161.00 
25.00 
38.00 
41.00 
38.00 
38.00 
38.00 
193.00 
227.00 
306.00 
56.00 
193.00 
227.00 
306.00 
GTC-9872-2000 
32 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Procedure 
Code 
D3351  Apexification/re-calcification – initial visit (apical closure/calcific repair of perforations, root 
resorption, etc.)  ...........................................................................................................................  
D3352  Apexification/re-calcification – interim medication replacement ..................................................  
D3353  Apexification/re-calcification – final visit (includes completed root canal therapy – apical 
closure/calcific repair of perforations, root resorption, etc.)  .......................................................  
Apicoectomy/periradicular services 
D3410  Apicoectomy– anterior  ................................................................................................................  
D3421  Apicoectomy– bicuspid (first root)  ..............................................................................................  
D3425  Apicoectomy– molar (first root) ...................................................................................................  
D3426  Apicoectomy (each additional root)  ............................................................................................  
D3427  Periradicular surgery without apicoectomy 
D3430  Retrograde filling – per root  ........................................................................................................  
D3450  Root amputation – per root……………………………………………………………………………. 
Other endodontic services 
D3920  Hemisection (including any root removal), not including root canal therapy…………………….. 
D4000-D4999  PERIODONTICS - Procedures subject to 6 month waiting period 
Surgical services (including usual postoperative services). 
D4210  Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty – four or more contiguous teeth or bounded teeth spaces per 
quadrant  ......................................................................................................................................  
D4211  Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty – one to three contiguous teeth or tooth bounded spaces, per 
quadrant  ......................................................................................................................................  
D4212  Gingivectomy or gingivoplasty to allow access for restorative procedure, per tooth ..................  
D4240  Gingival flap procedure, including root planing – four or more contiguous teeth or bounded 
teeth spaces per quadrant  ..........................................................................................................  
159.00 
D4241  Gingival flap procedure, including root planing – one to three contiguous teeth or tooth 
bounded spaces, per quadrant  ...................................................................................................  
D4245  Apically positioned flap  ...............................................................................................................  
D4249  Clinical crown lengthening – hard tissue  ....................................................................................  
D4260  Osseous surgery (including elevation of a full thickness flap and closure) – four or more 
95.00 
159.00 
96.00 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded spaces per quadrant  ...........................................................  
342.00 
D4261  Osseous surgery (including elevation of a full thickness flap and closure) – one to three 
contiguous teeth or tooth bounded spaces, per quadrant  ..........................................................  
D4263  Bone replacement graft – first site in quadrant ...........................................................................  
D4264  Bone replacement graft – each additional site in quadrant  ........................................................  
D4266  Guided tissue regeneration – restorbable barrier, per site………………………………………… 
D4267  Guided tissue regeneration – non-resorbable barrier, per site (includes membrane removal)  ..  
D4268  Surgical revision procedure, per tooth .........................................................................................  
D4270  Pedicle soft tissue graft procedure…………………………………………………………………… 
D4273  Subepithelial connective tissue graft procedures, per tooth………………………………………. 
D4277  Free soft tissue graft procedure (including donor site surgery), first tooth or edentulous tooth 
position in graft ………………………………………………………………………………………… 
D4278  Free soft tissue graft procedure (including donor site surgery), each additional contiguous 
D4283 
tooth or edentulous tooth position in same graft site ……………………………………………… 
Autogenous connective tissue graft procedure (including donor and recipient surgical sites) 
each additional contiguous tooth, implant or edentulous tooth position in same graft 
site……... 
GTC-9872-2000 
33 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Allowance 
56.00 
56.00 
56.00 
240.00 
257.00 
294.00 
50.00 
57.00 
57.00 
166.00 
121.00 
128.00 
77.00 
77.00 
205.00 
62.00 
47.00 
135.00 
135.00 
135.00 
192.00 
233.00 
208.00 
156.00 
140.00 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Code 
Non-surgical periodontal service 
D4341  Periodontal scaling and root planing – four or more teeth per quadrant…………………………. 
D4342  Periodontal scaling and root planing – one to three teeth, per quadrant  ...................................  
D4355  Full mouth debridement to enable comprehensive evaluation and diagnosis  ...........................  
D4346  Scaling in presence of generalized moderate or severe gingival inflammation – full mouth, 
Procedure 
after oral evaluation……………………………………………………………………………………. 
Other periodontal services 
D4910  Periodontal maintenance .............................................................................................................  
D4920  Unscheduled dressing change (by someone other than treating dentist or their staff)  ..............  
D5000-D5999  PROSTHODONTICS, REMOVABLE – procedures are subject to a 12 month 
waiting period 
Complete dentures (including routine post-delivery care) 
D5110  Complete denture – maxillary  .....................................................................................................  
D5120  Complete denture – mandibular  .................................................................................................  
Immediate denture – maxillary  ...................................................................................................  
D5130 
Immediate denture – mandibular  ................................................................................................  
D5140 
Partial dentures (including routine post-delivery care) 
D5211  Maxillary partial denture – resin base (including conventional clasps, rests and teeth)  ............  
D5212  Mandibular partial denture – resin base (including any conventional clasps, rests and teeth)  ..  
D5213  Maxillary partial denture – cast metal framework with resin denture bases (including 
conventional clasps, rests and teeth)  .........................................................................................  
287.00 
D5214  Mandibular partial denture – cast metal framework with resin denture bases (including 
conventional clasps, rests and teeth)  .........................................................................................  
D5225  Maxillary partial denture – flexible base (including any clasps, rests and teeth) ……………….. 
D5226  Mandibular partial denture – flexible base (including any clasps, rests and teeth) …………….. 
D5282  Removable unilateral partial denture – one piece cast metal (including clasps and teeth), 
287.00 
216.00 
216.00 
maxillary  ......................................................................................................................................  
120.00 
D5283  Removable unilateral partial denture – one piece cast metal (including clasps and teeth), 
mandibular  ..................................................................................................................................  
D5284    Removable unilateral partial denture – one piece flexible base (including clasps and teeth) – 
per quadrant………………………………………………………………………………………… 
D5286    Removable unilateral partial denture – one piece resin (including clasps and teeth) – per 
quadrant…………………………………………………………………………………………… 
Adjustments to dentures 
D5410  Adjust complete denture – maxillary  ..........................................................................................  
D5411  Adjust complete denture – mandibular  .......................................................................................  
D5421  Adjust partial denture – maxillary  ...............................................................................................  
D5422  Adjust partial denture – mandibular  ............................................................................................  
Repairs to complete dentures 
D5511  Repair broken complete denture base, mandibular  ...................................................................  
D5512  Repair broken complete denture base, maxillary  .......................................................................  
D5520  Replace missing or broken teeth – complete denture (each tooth) ............................................  
Repairs to partial dentures 
D5611  Repair resin partial denture base, 
mandibular………………………………………………………. 
D5612  Repair resin partial denture base, 
maxillary ………………………………………………………..   
D5621  Repair cast partial framework, mandibular  .................................................................................  
D5622  Repair cast partial framework, maxillary  ....................................................................................  
D5630  Repair or replace broken clasp  ..................................................................................................  
GTC-9872-2000 
34 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Allowance 
59.00 
35.00 
36.00 
43.00 
41.00 
36.00 
240.00 
241.00 
240.00 
241.00 
203.00 
212.00 
120.00 
108.00 
108.00 
13.00 
13.00 
14.00 
14.00 
31.00 
31.00 
25.00 
30.00 
30.00 
 25.00 
 25.00 
 36.00 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Procedure 
Code 
D5640  Replace broken teeth – per tooth  ...............................................................................................  
D5650  Add tooth to existing partial denture  ...........................................................................................  
D5660  Add clasp to existing partial denture  ..........................................................................................  
Denture rebase procedures 
D5710  Rebase complete maxillary denture  ...........................................................................................  
D5711  Rebase complete mandibular denture  .......................................................................................  
D5720  Rebase maxillary partial denture  ................................................................................................  
D5721  Rebase mandibular partial denture  ............................................................................................  
Interim partial denture (maxillary)  ...............................................................................................  
Interim partial denture (mandibular)  ...........................................................................................  
Denture reline procedures 
D5730  Reline complete maxillary denture (chairside)……………………………………………………… 
D5731  Reline complete mandibular denture (chairside)  ........................................................................  
D5740  Reline maxillary partial denture (chairside)  ................................................................................  
D5741  Reline mandibular partial denture (chairside)  .............................................................................  
D5750  Reline complete maxillary denture (laboratory)  ..........................................................................  
D5751  Reline complete mandibular denture (laboratory)  ......................................................................  
D5760  Reline maxillary partial denture (laboratory)  ...............................................................................  
D5761  Reline mandibular partial denture (laboratory)  ...........................................................................  
Interim prosthesis 
D5820 
D5821 
Other removable prosthetic services 
D5850  Tissue conditioning, maxillary .....................................................................................................  
D5851  Tissue conditioning, mandibular ..................................................................................................  
D5863  Overdenture – complete maxillary……………………………………………………………………. 
D5864  Overdenture – partial maxillary………………………………………………………………………. 
D5865  Overdenture – complete mandibular………………………………………………………………… 
D5866  Overdenture – partial mandibular…………………………………………………………………… 
D6200-D6999  PROSTHODONTICS, FIXED - Procedures subject to a 6 month waiting period 
(Each retainer and each pontic constitutes a unit in a fixed partial denture.) 
Fixed partial denture pontics 
D6210  Pontic – cast high noble metal ....................................................................................................  
D6211  Pontic – cast predominantly base metal  .....................................................................................  
D6212  Pontic – cast noble metal  ...........................................................................................................  
D6214  Pontic – titanium ……………………………………………………………………………………….. 
D6240  Pontic – porcelain fused to high noble metal  ..............................................................................  
D6241  Pontic – porcelain fused to predominantly base metal  ...............................................................  
D6242  Pontic – porcelain fused to noble metal  .....................................................................................  
D6543  Pontic-porcelain fused to titanium and titanium alloys……………………………………………... 
D6250  Pontic – resin with high noble metal  ...........................................................................................  
D6251  Pontic – resin with predominantly base metal  ............................................................................  
D6252  Pontic – resin with noble metal  ...................................................................................................  
Allowance 
27.00 
31.00 
37.00 
94.00 
93.00 
89.00 
91.00 
46.00 
45.00 
45.00 
47.00 
70.00 
70.00 
71.00 
71.00 
85.00 
85.00  
25.00 
24.00 
240.00 
287.00 
241.00 
287.00 
171.00 
138.00 
168.00 
171.00 
176.00 
155.00 
170.00 
170.00 
176.00 
155.00 
170.00 
Fixed partial denture retainers – inlays/onlays 
D6545  Retainer – cast metal for resin bonded fixed prosthesis  ............................................................  
D6549  Resin Retainer- resin bonded fixed prosthesis 
D6602  Retainer Inlay – cast high noble metal, two surfaces  .................................................................  
D6603  Retainer Inlay – cast high noble metal, three or more surfaces  .................................................  
D6604  Retainer Inlay – cast predominantly base metal, two surfaces  ..................................................  
DPA_Adult (2021) 
GTC-9872-2000 
35 
88.00 
88.00 
121.00 
135.00 
121.00 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Procedure 
Code 
D6605  Retainer Inlay – cast predominantly base metal, three or more surfaces  ..................................  
D6606  Retainer Inlay – cast noble metal, two surfaces  .........................................................................  
D6607  Retainer Inlay – cast noble metal, three or more surfaces  .........................................................  
D6610  Retainer Onlay – cast high noble metal, two surfaces  ...............................................................  
D6611  Retainer Onlay – cast high noble metal, three or more surfaces  ...............................................  
D6612  Retainer Onlay – cast predominantly base metal, two surfaces  ................................................  
D6613  Retainer Onlay – cast predominantly base metal, three or more surfaces  ................................  
D6614  Retainer Onlay – cast noble metal, two surfaces  .......................................................................  
D6615  Retainer Onlay – cast noble metal, three or more surfaces  .......................................................  
D6624  Retainer Inlay – titanium ……………………………………………………………………………… 
D6634  Onlay – titanium ……………………………………………………………………………………….. 
Fixed partial denture retainers – crowns 
D6720  Retainer Crown – resin with high noble metal  ............................................................................  
D6721  Retainer Crown – resin with predominantly base metal  .............................................................  
D6722  Retainer Crown – resin with noble metal  ....................................................................................  
D6750  Retainer Crown – porcelain fused to high noble metal  ..............................................................  
D6751  Retainer Crown – porcelain fused to predominantly base metal  ................................................  
D6752  Retainer Crown – porcelain fused to noble metal  ......................................................................  
D6753  Retainer Crown – porcelain fused to titanium and titanium alloys………………………………... 
Fixed partial denture retainers – crowns  
D6780  Retainer Crown – ¾ cast high noble metal  ................................................................................  
D6781  Retainer Crown – ¾ cast predominantly base metal ..................................................................  
D6782  Retainer Crown – ¾ cast noble metal  ........................................................................................  
D6790  Retainer Crown – full cast high noble metal  ...............................................................................  
D6791  Retainer Crown – full cast predominantly base metal  ................................................................  
D6792  Retainer Crown – full cast noble metal  .......................................................................................  
D6794  Retainer Crown – titanium 
………………………………………………………………………………………. 
Other fixed partial denture services 
D6930  Re-cement or re-bond fixed partial denture  ................................................................................  
D6940  Stress breaker  ............................................................................................................................  
D6980  Fixed partial denture repair necessitated by restorative material failure .....................................  
D7000-D7999  ORAL AND MAXILLOFACIAL SURGERY Procedures subject to a 6 month 
waiting period 
Extractions (includes local anesthesia, suturing, suturing, if needed, and routine postoperative care) 
D7111  Extraction, coronal remnants – deciduous tooth .........................................................................  
D7140  Extraction, erupted tooth or exposed root (elevation and/or forceps removal)  ..........................  
Surgical extractions (includes local anesthesia, suturing, if needed, and routine postoperative care) 
D7210  Surgical removal of erupted tooth requiring removal of bone and/or section of tooth, and 
including elevation of mucoperiosteal flap if indicated  ...............................................................  
D7220  Removal of impacted tooth – soft tissue  ....................................................................................  
D7230  Removal of impacted tooth – partially bony  ...............................................................................  
D7240  Removal of impacted tooth – completely bony ............................................................................  
D7250  Surgical removal of residual tooth roots (cutting procedure)  ......................................................  
GTC-9872-2000 
36 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
Allowance 
135.00 
121.00 
135.00 
288.00 
288.00 
288.00 
288.00 
288.00 
288.00 
135.00 
288.00 
181.00 
161.00 
175.00 
181.00 
161.00 
175.00 
181.00 
181.00 
181.00 
181.00 
180.00 
159.00 
175.00 
180.00 
33.00 
38.00 
50.00 
20.00 
39.00 
74.00 
90.00 
117.00 
134.00 
78.00 
SpecimenCode 
Allowance 
KPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Procedure 
Other surgical procedures 
D7260  Oroantral fistula closure  ..............................................................................................................  
D7261  Primary closure of a sinus perforation  ........................................................................................  
D7270  Tooth reimplantation and/or stabilization of accidentally evulsed or displaced tooth .................  
D7272  Tooth transplantation (includes reimplantation from one site to another and splinting and/or 
stabilization)  ................................................................................................................................  
D7280  Surgical access of unerupted tooth  ............................................................................................  
Incisional biopsy of oral tissue – hard (bone, tooth)  ...................................................................  
D7285 
D7286 
Incisional biopsy of oral tissue – soft ...........................................................................................  
Alveoloplasty – surgical preparation of ridge for dentures 
D7310  Alveoloplasty in conjunction with extractions – per quadrant  .....................................................  
D7311  Alveoloplasty in conjunction with extractions –one to three teeth or tooth spaces, per 
quadrant 
D7320  Alveoloplasty not in conjunction with extractions – four or more teeth or tooth spaces, per 
quadrant…………………………………………………………………………………………… 
D7321  Alveoloplasty not in conjunction with extractions – one to three teeth or tooth spaces, per 
quadrant ………………………………………………………………………………………………… 
Vestibuloplasty 
D7340  Vestibuloplasty – ridge extension (secondary epithelialization)  .................................................  
D7350  Vestibuloplasty – ridge extension (including soft tissue graft, muscle reattachment, revision of 
soft tissue attachment and management of hypertrophied and hyperplastic tissue)  .................  
Surgical excision of intra-osseous lesions 
D7450  Removal of benign odontogenic cyst or tumor – lesion diameter up to 1.25 cm  .......................  
D7451  Removal of benign odontogenic cyst or tumor – lesion diameter greater than 1.25 cm  ............  
Excision of bone tissue 
D7471  Removal of lateral exostosis (maxilla or mandible)  ....................................................................  
D7472  Removal of torus palatinus  .........................................................................................................  
D7473  Removal of torus mandibularis  ...................................................................................................  
Surgical incision 
D7510 
D7960  Frenulectomy (frenectomy or frenotomy) – separate procedure not incidental to another 
Incision and drainage of abscess – intraoral soft tissue  .............................................................  
procedure .....................................................................................................................................  
D7970  Excision of hyperplastic tissue – per arch  ..................................................................................  
D7971  Excision of pericoronal gingival  ..................................................................................................  
D9000-D9999  ADJUNCTIVE GENERAL SERVICES 
Unclassified treatment 
D9110  Palliative (emergency) treatment of dental pain – minor procedure ...........................................  
Anesthesia 
D9222  Deep sedation/general anesthesia – first 15 minutes  ................................................................  
GTC-9872-2000 
37 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
225.00 
225.00 
132.00 
98.00 
176.00 
136.00 
108.00 
59.00 
36.00 
96.00 
58.00 
82.00 
218.00 
131.00 
273.00 
162.00 
162.00 
162.00 
48.00 
115.00 
88.00 
43.00 
41.00 
36.00 
SpecimenKPIC Dental Insurance Plan 
TABLE OF ALLOWANCES 
(List of the amounts KPIC will pay) 
Code 
D9223  Deep sedation/general anesthesia – each subsequent 15 minutes increment  ..........................  
Professional consultation 
D9310  Consultation (diagnostic service provided by dentist or physician other than practitioner 
Procedure 
providing treatment)  ....................................................................................................................  
D9430  Office visit for observation (during regularly scheduled hours) - no other services performed  ..  
D9440  Office visit – after regularly scheduled hours  .............................................................................  
Drugs 
D9610  Therapeutic parenteral drug injection, single administration  ......................................................  
D9612  Therapeutic parental drugs, two or more administrations, different medications ........................  
Miscellaneous services 
D9930  Treatment of complications (postsurgical) – unusual circumstances, by report  ........................  
D9951  Occlusal adjustment – limited ......................................................................................................  
Note: This Appendix represents codes and nomenclature excerpted from the version of Current Dental Terminology (CDT) 
in  effect  at  the  date  of  this  Contract  or  amendment  was  issued.  CDT  coding  and  nomenclature  are  the  copyright  of  the 
American  Dental  Association,  and  have  been  accepted  as  the  standard  for  data  transmission  purposes  under  federal 
Administrative Simplification regulations. For the purposes of this Appendix, the administration of Benefits, Limitations and 
Exclusions  under  this  Contract  will  at  all  times  be  based  on  the  then-current  version  of  CDT  whether  or  not  a  revised 
Appendix B is provided. Notes in italic type have been added  for clarification. 
Allowance 
36.00 
43.00 
24.00 
49.00 
6.00 
6.00 
19.00 
32.00 
GTC-9872-2000 
38 
DPA_Adult (2021) 
SpecimenIf You have an insurance complaint, You may contact KPIC by writing to the address below: 
IMPORTANT NOTICE 
Kaiser Permanente Insurance Company 
One Kaiser Plaza, 25B 
Oakland CA 94612 
Or by calling KPIC’s Administrator at 1-800-835-2244 
If You have a insurance complaint that cannot be satisfactorily resolved through a discussion or 
correspondence with KPIC, contact: 
California Department of Insurance 
Consumer Communications Bureau 
300 S. Spring Street 
Los Angeles, CA 90013 
For callers outside California and California area codes 
(213) and (310), call (213) 897-8921 
For California callers in all other area codes, call (800) 927-4357 
For  assistance  with  questions  regarding  Your  coverage,  such  as  Your  benefits,  Your  current  eligibility 
status, or name and address changes, please have your ID card available when You call:  
Who Can Answer Your Questions? 
Customer Services Department 
1(800)-835-2244 
Or You may write to:  
Delta Dental of California our Administrator: 
P.O. Box 997330 
Sacramento. CA 95899 
Or You may contact our Administrator, Delta Dental on the Internet at: 
www.deltadentalins.com 
GTC-9872-2000 
(DPA-Adult 2021) 
Specimen